Jehovah design marriage is a beautiful and rewarding relationship between a husband and a wife.
When a husband and wife fulfill their God-given roles and they treat each other with love and respect,
their marriage is a wonderful and intimate friendship.
A marriage that has good patterns shaped by Jehovah's principles looks like this well-balanced family circle.
But if a married couple over time has set bad patterns in how they deal with each other,
this is often the result. The life's going to be a bit rough for them.
Let's consider what Jehovah says about the roles of husband and wife,
and then discuss how love and respect are real keys to a happy marriage.
So what roles did Jehovah give to the man and woman in marriage?
Well, Jehovah places the husband as head of the family.
Ephesians 5.23 says a husband is head of his wife.
So that means the husband makes final decisions for the family,
and his decisions will reflect his love for his wife, his children,
and his understanding of their spiritual, physical, and emotional needs.
At 1 Corinthians 11 and verse 3, we get a sense, though, of how Jehovah feels about the husband's role.
And as we read this together, I want you to imagine Jehovah saying to husbands,
yes, your head of the family, but I want you to know that the head of every man is the Christ,
and in turn the head of a woman is the man.
Sounds a lot like a father-in-law speaking to the groom.
You can marry my daughter, but you better treat her good because you're responsible to me.
Well, Jehovah is giving a very clear message for husbands.
Jehovah will hold you accountable to him for how you treat your wife.
It's something for us husbands to think about, isn't it?
Well, what about the role of a wife?
Jehovah assigned wives as a beloved partner to her husband,
and as partners, they can discuss important family matters
and work together to make their marriage a success.
Jehovah placed the woman under the headship of the man,
and as such, her role is to be in subjection to him.
At Ephesians 5 and verse 22, it says,
Let wives be in subjection to their husbands as to the Lord.
Subjection. Set a certain way, it almost sounds bad.
You have to be in subjection.
But is the subjection of a Christian wife to a Christian husband a bad thing?
No. See, subjection as described in the Bible is not about being subservient.
It's about her role in the marriage.
Your partners, each with a beautiful role to fulfill.
We could illustrate it with watching a couple ice skating.
As they move gracefully across the ice,
Do you think to yourself, how come they never let her hold him over her head?
Well, no, you look at him, you look at her,
it's obvious who should hold who over their head.
Well, just as we admire and respect a woman's role as an ice skating partner,
a husband deeply loves and appreciates his wife's role as his partner
as they work gracefully together to make their marriage a success.
Well, now that we've briefly reviewed the roles for husbands and wives,
let's read together a key scriptural principle at Ephesians 5 and verse 33
that shows how Jehovah wants husbands and wives to fulfill their roles in marriage.
Ephesians 5 and verse 33.
Each one of you must love his wife as he does himself.
On the other hand, the wife should have deep respect for her husband.
Well, the obvious message in this scripture is that husbands should love their wives
and wives should respect their husbands.
However, there's another way to look at this scripture and learn something about husbands and wives.
Jehovah God is telling us what each mate needs.
Men need respect and women need love.
Now, this is not to say that men don't need love and women don't need to be respected.
However, it does mean that men tend to emphasize respect and status
and women often emphasize intimacy, connection, and love.
This perfect principle can help us to understand why our husband or wife may act or feel a certain way.
Now, this difference in emphasis affects many areas of married life.
Let's consider three examples of how this powerful scriptural principle of love and respect can give us insight into how a husband and wife talk to each other,
how they solve problems, and how they act in the company of others.
Let's consider our first example, how they talk to each other.
Now, since a wife's emphasis is on being loved,
her conversations often stress friendship and connection when she talks to her husband.
She's eager to share the details of her life with him and in this way become closer to him.
She wants him in turn to share with her the details of his day in life.
Husbands, your wife feels loved when you learn to communicate with her in a way that tells her you truly care about her.
She places great emphasis on conversation and sharing her life with you,
and likewise you sharing your life with her.
For example, a wife tells her husband about something that happened to her that day.
He grows impatient with the story and interrupts or changes the subject or offers a quick solution.
How does she feel?
Why can't he listen to the whole story? Has he lost interest in me?
It's important that husbands give their wives their full attention as they speak.
After a long day at work, his mind may be focused on events that happen to him that day,
and he may, without realizing it, feel that the events or conversation of his wife aren't on important subjects.
So he may be inclined to play down the events in her life as unimportant or trivial,
while events he talks about are substantial and important because they happen to him.
Well, such a feeling over time can truly discourage a wife.
A husband's disinterest in her stories and events of her life feels a lot like disinterest in her.
The advice of Proverbs 20 and verse 5 is good for husbands.
It says, the thoughts of a man, or we could say in this case,
women's heart are like deep waters, but the discerning man draws them out.
That's great advice for husbands.
Husbands, when you draw your wife out, let her speak from her heart.
That's an indication of great love and affection for your dear wife.
Men, on the other hand, often view conversation differently.
A husband comes home and his wife asks, how was your day?
He says, it was okay, nothing special.
But later than at night, when they're with a group of friends,
he tells a story about what happened at work.
And she wonders, well, why didn't he tell me that when I asked about his day?
Well, since a man's emphasis is on respect, they often use conversation
to establish respect and status with others.
A husband may feel that his wife already respects him,
so there's no need to tell her the story.
Wives, you can encourage your husband to share his life with you
by being interested in his work and activities.
If you tell him, don't talk to me about all that work stuff with me,
he won't, and you'll cut yourself off from a part of his life.
Show him you're proud of what he does to support the family.
Be interested in what happened to him, how he feels about things
or challenges that he overcame.
While you may not find his work all that interesting,
remember, it is important to him.
Let's consider our second example, how they solve problems.
Now, I want you to imagine a husband and wife, they're in a car,
they're looking for an address, and they're lost.
And the wife suggests that they ask someone for directions.
She's thinking, why won't he ask?
He's thinking, why can't he just let me find it?
You see, since the man's emphasis is on respect,
he's trying to avoid looking lost to a stranger.
The act of asking someone else for directions
may make him feel like he's in a lower position.
Finding their way is a challenge to him,
and he wants to show his wife that he can find it on his own.
For the woman, such an idea may not come to mind.
She may view it as a simple interchange between them and a stranger.
They get help in directions, and they find out where they're going.
At 1 Corinthians chapter 7 and verse 33, Jehovah tells us,
but the married man is anxious, how he may gain the approval of his wife.
Wives your husband is anxious to have your approval and respect.
But on balance, husbands have to be careful
that an emphasis on respect doesn't become unreasonable.
It won't hurt us to ask for directions or help at times.
On the other hand, a wife needs to be careful
that she doesn't show impatience by her words or tone
as her husband works his way through a problem.
A wife who clearly understands her husband's desire
to solve problems for the family will understand his actions
and will do her part to support him,
even in the little things around the home.
Now this support, in the little areas of life,
builds his confidence in her support
and can be a major factor in whether a husband takes the lead in larger matters.
Our third and final example,
how they act in front of others.
Have you ever seen a couple where one of them is telling a story
and the other is constantly correcting the details
or the husband is trying to give some direction
and the wife corrects or challenges the direction?
Or the husband is telling others some unflattering story
that hurts his wife's feelings.
How can Ephesians 533 help a wife in these situations?
Well, since a husband's emphasis is on respect,
he'll be much more sensitive to comments his wife may make in front of others.
It can hurt a husband deeply
when his wife openly challenges him in front of others.
Proverbs 31 and verse 12 has this advice for wives.
She rewards him with good, not bad, all the days of her life.
So when in public or when others are around,
even close family and children,
try not to openly disagree with him, correct him,
or attempt to take over what he's doing.
How you speak to your husband in front of others
is a great way to show your deep respect for him.
It also builds respect for him and others,
including any children in the family.
Well, how can Ephesians 533 help a husband act in front of others?
Well, when in public,
husbands will want to act like the husband in Proverbs 31 and verse 28.
It says her husband rises up and praises her.
It's common today for husbands to make fun of,
or even say demeaning things about their wives.
But since a wife places so much emphasis on connection and friendship,
she can really be hurt when demeaning remarks are said to get a laugh.
It makes her feel awful.
Husbands, your wife considers you her best friend,
the one she shares everything with.
If you break that trust, she feels unloved and hurt.
Now, the best time to bring matters to each other's attention
is when you're in private,
or if needed, when you can talk in such a way
that others cannot hear what's being said.
In this way, a wife shows deep respect for her husband
and the husband shows his love for his wife.
So in review, we've considered just three situations
that the principle of love and respect can help us to have a successful marriage,
how husband and wife talk to each other,
how they solve problems,
and how they act in the company of others.
A good marriage is hard work.
How was your marriage?
Would you say that you've developed good patterns
or bad patterns in dealing with each other?
When was the last time you talked as a couple
about love and respect for each other?
Jehovah's perfect advice at Ephesians 533
can help the marriage of two imperfect people.
In just a few words in this verse,
Jehovah is sharing with us a key principle
of how he designed marriage.
He's telling us what each needs and places emphasis on.
Husbands put emphasis on being respected
and wives put emphasis on being loved.
And this principle forms a key part
of the divine pattern for marriage.
If you want your marriage to operate as Jehovah designed,
then work hard to apply his perfect principle of love
and respect in your marriage.